[enterprise-4.14] OSDOCS-15164 [NETOBSERV] Add IPsec to 4.14 (#95598)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/network-observability-proc_configuring-ipsec-with-flow-collector-resource.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// network_observability/observing-network-traffic.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE

> [id="network-observability-configuring-ipsec-with-flow-collector-resource_{context}"]

Author: Being handled by https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OSDOCS-15173

= Configuring IPsec with the FlowCollector custom resource

In {product-title}, IPsec is disabled by default. You can enable IPsec by following the instructions in "Configuring IPsec encryption".

.Prerequisite

* You have enabled IPsec encryption on {product-title}.

.Procedure
. In the web console, navigate to *Operators* -> *Installed Operators*.
. Under the *Provided APIs* heading for the *NetObserv Operator*, select *Flow Collector*.
. Select *cluster* then select the *YAML* tab.

> . Configure the `FlowCollector` custom resource for IPsec:

Author: Being handled by https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OSDOCS-15173

+
.Example configuration of `FlowCollector` for IPsec
[source, yaml]
----
apiVersion: flows.netobserv.io/v1beta2
kind: FlowCollector
metadata:
  name: cluster
spec:
  namespace: netobserv
  agent:
    type: eBPF
    ebpf:
      features:
      - "IPSec"
----

.Verification

> When IPsec is enabled:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After IPsec is enabled, verify that the following items:
```

Author: Being handled by https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OSDOCS-15173

> * A new column named *IPsec Status* is displayed in the network observability *Traffic flows* view to show whether a flow was successfully IPsec-encrypted or if there was an error during encryption/decryption.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* In the *Traffic flows* view, a new *IPsec Status* column displays whether a flow is successfully IPsec-encrypted or displays an error that occurred during encryption or decryption.
```

Author: Being handled by https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OSDOCS-15173

> * A new dashboard showing the percent of encrypted traffic is generated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A new dashboard showing the percent of traffic that is encrypted.
```
